Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title: Sound Mixing Desk ( Draft)


Student Name: R Ali


Supervisor: AJG




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
The music industry has developed to include the mixing of electronic sounds, This has required various mathematical algorithms being deployed,. This interest in this project is how can these sounds from different algorithms be combined. 


Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
1. Basic system would involve the combining of different types of files, 
2. the ability to cut and pace sounds together and 
3. a user defined interface, VB based
4. Uml design
5. an understanding of the Midi and sound elements with the VB


Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* A good user requirements analysis

* Good approach to the project life cycle using the spiral model

* A development of a user interface that represent the needs of the user

* Some understanding of the Visual Basic Commands to control sounds, such as open, control and streaming


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)

* The Ability of the system to mix sounds in a more professional manner

* Technique to enhance , Reverberate sounds


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.



