Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:   Virtual Representation of the Gisbert Kapp Building


Student Name:   Sanjeev Johal


Supervisor:   R. J. Stone




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)

Virtual environments are very useful in allowing people to explore a location without them actually having to be there. For my project I will be creating a virtual representation of the Gisbert Kapp building using the Unreal engine, and I will construct I movement mat that will allow users to navigate through the system. The system will use a monitor to display the virtual environment.


Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 

The aim of this project is to design and create a virtual representation of the Gisbert Kapp building. This will include the outside of the building, the first two floors, and Professor Stone's office and the computer cluster on the ground floor. I will create a mat in order to move forwards, backwards and sideways, and a joystick will be used in order to turn and change direction.


Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.) 
* Virtual representation of the Gisbert Kapp building including the outside, the first two floors and one room i.e. Professor Stone's office.
* Use of joystick for complete navigation.

Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.) 
* Virtual representation of the Gisbert Kapp building including the outside of the building, the first two floors and four rooms (Prof Stone's office, computer cluster, library, common room).
* Use of mat for complete navigation.
* Implement system on to a web page.

Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.

NB.  Although the VR and interactive mat elements of this project are not particularly unique, the games engine element is, both for the student concerned and the Department, in terms of interactive software design and 3D modelling and interfacing of new peripheral devices.  RJS

(

