Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title: Ethernet-based Data Acquisition System


Student Name: Lai Yuen Kit


Supervisor: Dr. F. Huang




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
This project is specified entirely by the student.  Having failed to find a supervisor who specializes in the area, he realizes he will have to use his experience and enthusiasm in lieu of close supervision.
The Ethernet-based Data Acquisition System is a device that can collect data at one end, and send data via ethernet connection to a computer/server. The computer/server collects and publishes the data via web server. Internet users are able to read the data by using a web browser and internet connection, regardless where they stay. 


Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
The aim of this project is to design and construct a microcontroller-based data acquisition device that is able to communicate via ethernet to a server/computer to publish its data via web server.


Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* Be able to build an data acquisition system device.

* Be able to demonstrate an understanding of network protocol, like TCP/IP stack.


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* Be able to recalibrate and control the data acquisition system device via web browser.

* The device is able to function as web server.


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.








1


