Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:  mm-wave antenna array and beamforming network.


Student Name:  Cong Li


Supervisor:  PG




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
Low cost, high quality antenna arrays are needed for mm-wave automotive communication systems.  Conventional methods of producing such antennas tend to be expensive and lead to structures that are not compatible with vehicle mounting.  This project aims to develop a technique for low cost production of antennas and beamformer networks for vehicles, operating in the CEPT designated band of 63-64 GHz,


Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
The aim of this project is to design, build and test a low frequency demonstrator of a switched beam antenna system for the 63-64 GHz band.  A suitable frequency to demonstrate the principle of operation would be 21-21.3 GHz.  The input ports should be waveguide, for compatibility with the intended 63-64 GHz operation.  (Coaxial connectors are expensive and impractical in that band)





Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)

* Simulation of elements of the system using a commercial EM simulator, including transmission line and coupler sections.


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)

* Demonstrate beam switching in the 21 GHz version.
* Scale the design to the full 63-64 GHz band, and fully simulate it.
* Build and test the 63 GHz version and demonstrate beam switching in the 63 GHz version.


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.

(

