Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title: Finite State Control of Voltage Conditioning and Storage System


Student Name: Siang Lim


Supervisor: SVMollov




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
Voltage in aircraft systems can vary a lot, mainly due to load switching. Problem is exacerbated in More- and All-Electric aircraft, where the number of pulsed and constant power loads is very much increased..
The voltage conditioner should counteract the resulting large voltage excursions on the main voltage distribution bus. It will also provide fast energy transfer for pulsed power loads in tactical aircraft.
System specs:
Cater for 1kW load. Vdc=270V. Should cover transients for 10ms. Storage current <20A.



Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
Design power stage and control circuits
Simulate the entire system
Build and operate the system
Test at full power



Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* Calculate passive components Design magnetic component.

* Design control circuit

* Full schematic and code listing (if applicable)


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* Full system simulation:    2.2

* Build and operate system:    2.1

* Test at full load and specification:   first


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.

yes

