Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:  Voice Controlled Robot


Student Name: J Nelson


Supervisor:
Prof. M.J. Russell



Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)

The aim of this project is to design and construct a small compact speech controlled mobile robot, that will able to respond to voice commands, such as; GO, STOP, LEFT, RIGHT etc. This will necessitate the design, implementation and evaluation of a speech recognition unit, either on the robot or on a PC, a drive unit to control movement, a microprocessor to do all the processing and the chassis to put it all on. The robot itself has already been designed as part of a previous project.  


Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
1. Understand basic speech recognition technology
2. Decide system design issues: on- or off-robot speech recognition, microphone location, microphone-to-recogniser comms, recognizer-to-robot comms etc
3. Implementation and testing of robot: The robot will be mobile, in that it will have wheels connected to stepper motors connected to the microprocessor to enable movement.
4. Implementation and testing of speech recognition
5. System integration (using wire link between PC and robot)

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* Minimum targets are items 1,2, 3 and 5, with text commands to robot to simulate the output of the speech recogniser


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* Wireless LAN between the robot and the PC. SR on the PC and commands sent to the robot via the wireless link.
* More complex set of spoken commands


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.



