Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title: Pitch trainer for a novice singer


Student Name:  Peter Samuel


Supervisor:  FH




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)

A filter bank consisting of several bandpass filters, separated by a tone or semitone, can be used to test the pitch of a novice singer:  when he/she sings a note on the musical scale, it is output, but when he/she sings something out of tune, nothing is heard.  This filter bank is to be constructed.  This continues a project by a previous student.



Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 

Working hardware and software to cover at least one octave of the musical scale.



Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)

* Working hardware to cover at least two notes.


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)

* A study of whether the harmonics in the voice,  slowly-varying pitch and transient notes affect the circuit.
* Use of down-samplers to implement additional octaves on the scale with a minimal increase in the amount of code, and reduced truncation error.


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.

Other than learning standard theory and software, there is enough unique material provided the expected outcomes are met.


