Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:  Micro Analysis of Computer Games Playing


Student Name:  R Bhagat


Supervisor:  Dr. C. Baber




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
In this project, strategies and activity in computer games playing will be analysed and modeled using CPM-GOMS (a technique that uses a combination of goal decomposition and task timing with critical path analysis to describe parallel task activity). 

Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
The aim of the project is to produce testable, predictive models of human performance in a dynamic activity in order to explore the acquisition and development of skills.


Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* If the game playing is too complex to model then it will be necessary to concentrate on either simpler games or on subsets of activity
* If the decision making involved in gaming is too complex then the project will focus only on physical actions.


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* I would like to investigate multiplayer, online gaming and to explore predictive models of team performance
* I would like to model the effects of different interaction devices on gaming


Project Uniqueness: It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.

ü

