Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title: Chroma-key tool


Student Name: Christopher David Briars


Supervisor: Peter Jancovic




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
Chroma-Key is a technique used in the film and television industry to artificially place a background scene needed behind a person. The person is filmed in front of a specific background-colour (usually green or blue). Then, the background colour can be replaced with an arbitrary scene by digital manipulation of the video frames.


Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
The aim of this project is to develop such a chroma-key tool for creating 'noisy' audio-visual speech recognition database (CUAVE). The database is stored in mpeg2 format with a green background.
The program should take two mpeg2 files as input - one being an original file from the a-v database and one being background.
The output of the program should be an encoded mpeg 'noisy' file or a sequence of noisy static images at each frame-time.
The program may consider software such as JavaMedia or libmpeg3 or may build on some parts of the source-code already available at the department. 


Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* Use some software tool to decode the mpeg2 stream into a sequence of static images.
* Develop tool for replacing the green-background in the static images by various images in C (C++).
* If problems, develop the chroma-key tool in Matlab.


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* Separate the audio stream from the .mpeg2 files and store as separate files.
* Encode the 'noisy' image frames back to mpeg2 format.
* Since it is hard to estimate the progress in this project, additionally, the development of some lip-localization/tracking techniques may be considered.


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.



