Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:   Virtual Environment Control/Display System for Supervision and Teleoperation of Multiple Semi-Autonomous Vehicles (Games Engine / Real-Time Rendering System)


Student Name:   Chris Collis


Supervisor:   RJS




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
The effective display - in real-time - of objects and events in three dimensional space for situational awareness purposes is gaining considerable support in a number of important application domains, from air traffic control to the deployment of semi-autonomous air and subsea vehicles.  However, the human factor has only been given basic consideration in the design proposals for such systems, typically resulting in very cluttered, confusing displays with poor interactivity.  This project, which will be performed in conjunction with that undertaken by another BEng student - Tim Kallay - will address the development of an underlying three-dimensional rendering software package, suitable for integration with the emerging HCI concepts and supporting appropriate AI behaviours.  The package will be based on a games engine program, either developed from scratch, or using a modified, down-loadable example from the Web (eg. Unreal II). 

Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
The main aim of this project is to implement a 3D virtual world rendering system, complete with dynamic objects representing semi-autonomous vehicles, using games engine technologies and methodologies.  The rendering system will be capable of displaying the behaviours of simulated semi-autonomous underwater vehicles, performing autonomously, or under the direct control of the human user.  Basic functions such as collision detection will also be implemented.  The rendering system will be designed to interface with the HCI and AI subroutines being generated by Tim Kally. 

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.) 
* Simplified engine capable of supporting the display of basic, preprogrammed-path vehicle representations (no AI support) with joystick interface option

Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.) 
* Addition of visual enhancements (eg. pixel shading, terrain mapping)
* Enhanced underlying physics engine
* Development of separate vehicle entities via network connection
* Enhanced 3D engine

Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.




