Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title: Detection of Speech in Sound Recordings


Student Name: Olusegun Olomofe


Supervisor: Peter Jancovic




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
The task of a sound retrieval system is to find an occurrence of some sound-of-interest in a large amount of recordings. As an example, we may be interested in detection of speech in a recorded sound (e.g. sound track of movie). This project will investigate methods for the detection of speech in such recorded sounds (which may possibly contain various types of non-speech signals, such as various noises, action, or music).

Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
The aim of this project is to investigate and develop a program for the detection of speech signals in recordings, which contain various types of sounds (e.g. stationary & non-stationary background noise, music). 
The input to the program is a waveform signal (.wav file). The student will need to parameterize the input signal into a sequence of spectral-based frame features. The program will consist of two phases: training and testing.
In the training phase, models of speech feature-space will be estimated by Gaussian mixture modeling (GMM). This will be performed on clean speech database. Both, GMM tool and the clean speech database will be provided.
In the testing, initially, a speech signal should be inserted at random positions into a mixture of non-speech signals (the student should create a database of various non-speech sounds). Then, tests should be carried out on a real-world data, e.g. sound track of a movie. The results obtained should be evaluated by comparing them to those obtained manually (i.e. the location of speech present in the real-world data should be manually annotated).

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* The program developed in Matlab environment.
* The speech parameterization not implemented - a provided parameterization used.
* Only the initial testing performed.

Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* The program developed in C (C++) language.
* Both types of testing performed. For the real-world data testing, a database of at least one hour should be obtained and annotated.
* Investigation on using segment-based features.

Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.



