Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title: Software Definable Radio Link


Student Name: D Appadoo


Supervisor: CCC




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
Software definable radio (SDR) is a promising new technology with the potential to revolutionise radio communications by standardizing the radio hardware down to a minimal hardware technology, and exploiting the flexibility of software and power of digital signal processors to create an adaptive radio which scans and adopts an available air interface standard.

Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
The aim of this project is to design, build and test a pair of hand-held, battery-powered radio transmitter and receivers each based around a SHARC board. These should support QPSK and FSK modulation for 64kb/s continuous NRZ data bit stream.

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* Decide on which unlicensed band to use with a view to minimize project complexity and cost.
* Design, build and demonstrate a simple transmitter and receiver architecture.
* Manually set the desired modulation schemes.

Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* Implement an advanced transceiver architecture that can compensate for inter-symbol interference and a time-variant channel.
* Implement an auto-modulation scheme recognition facility at the receiver together with the necessary signaling to support this at the transmitter.

Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.


 ü

