Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:
Microwave Microscopy

Student Name:
Jiann Yih Horace Chong

Supervisor:
Tim Jackson



Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
A microwave microscope based on a co-axial, quarter wavelength resonator has been built in the research lab. We want to simulate the change in resonant frequency of the microscope when a sample is brought up to the tip, for different materials with different dielectric constants. We want to compare the results of the frequency calculations with published theory.

The student will have to begin by reminding himself of the electric field inside a co-axial cable, the meaning of resonance, the meaning of dielectric constant and the change in capacitance of two parallel plates when a dielectric material is placed between them.





Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
Use SUPERFISH program for calculations.
Graph of frequency shift versus dielectric constant.
Compare graph with theory.
Try different geometries of tip and compare again
Try "bi-layer" samples and compare again.

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* Use SUPERFISH program for calculations.

* Graph of frequency shift versus dielectric constant.


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* Try different geometries of tip and compare again
Try "bi-layer" samples and compare again
* Try samples with lateral confinement


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.

X

