Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:  Design of gaming platform, coalitions and prediction


Student Name:  Barbar Hayat


Supervisor:   MO




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
Gaming has emerged as an important flow in software industry, which suggests high prospect in the future. Today most of gaming products are based on animation and shockwave technology, while little has been focused on monitoring game outcomes in such way to be beneficial for players and customers.  Further, investigation of impact of some gaming strategy with respect to classics of game theory is still a premature area for research. This motivates this proposal in looking to a specific aspect of game related to game theory, which concerns the coalition formation and prediction.

Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
The aim of this project is to design and build a game platform where up to 4 players can take part simultaneously. It is anticipated that the concept of coalition between players can be used to defect the opponent, and use some result from game theory to predict the success/failure of the coalition. It is suggested that the platform will be implemented using Java or any other language on a PC.

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* To design and implement a gaming platform for a particular game for four players
* To integrate coalition formation and monitoring within the game
* To formalize a methodology from game theory and the notion of common knowledge that allows a prediction of coalition output. 
* To integrate such methodology in the game platform. 

Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* To consider extension of the game platform.

Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.


 x



