Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title: Software Routines for the Testing and Diagnostics of Jaguar's Body System Network


Student Name: M Abbasi


Supervisor: Clive Roberts




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
The project will be to design and construct an SCP (Standard Corporate Protocol) test and diagnostic tool for Jaguar.  SCP is a bespoke communication protocol similar in functionality to CAN. A network analysis tool, JEST (Jaguar Engineering SCP Tool), already exists and is used for the Ford SCP. However, JEST's functionality has not been incorporated into software based automated test and diagnostic routines.  SCP is currently used as the 'body system network' on all Jaguar vehicle, the body system network provides control for locking, seat position, lighting control, etc.


Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
The aim of the project is to design and construct a series of software routines for the automated test and diagnostics of the SCP network.  The routines should be capable of monitoring, transmitting and automating the diagnostics of the SCP network.  In particular the system should be able to display and decode messages passing across the network. These will appear on the bus in hex format and will need to be converted into meaningful text using a pre-existing database.

In addition, the system should be able to transmit single or cyclic messages to probe the SCP modules.

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* Design the test and diagnostic software routines for the monitoring and transmission of messages on the SCP network;
* Develop a means of monitoring messages on the SCP network;
* Log all network traffic to disk


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* The monitoring function should allow for the filtering of certain message types.  Multiple instance of this filtering functionality should be available at any one time;
* The ability to develop macros which provide a basic means of configuring the software via a script file could be included.


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.


 ü

