Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:   Internal Subject Tracking System and VR Database Integration


Student Name:   Mark Collings


Supervisor:   RJS




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
Without resorting to expensive wireless or optical spatial tracking systems, there is no low-cost, accessible method for registering the gross location or presence of an individual within an interior space (such as a vessel or building) and using that sensed location to elicit some relevant event in a virtual representation of that space (eg. A description of room occupant or storage contents, the location and operational instructions of safety equipment, possible the display of an interactive virtual artefact - as might be required in a museum environment, etc, etc.).  This project would lay the foundation to ultimately develop a network of appropriate sensors designed, in conjunction with VR, to help enhance the familiarisation process of complex spaces.

Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
The aim of this project is to develop a demonstrator, using appropriate sensing technologies, Virtual Environment software and computing facilities, to sense the location of an individual within a corridor of a building and to use this information to "trigger" a meaningful event within a VR reconstruction of said corridor.  The demonstration would be based on an integrated sensor-VR system and would suggest likely real-world applications where such a system, once developed, could offer significant advantages over the use of conventional map techniques/written instructions or undirected exploration.

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.) 
* 3D graphical model of part (corridor section) of EECE
* Basic (bench) sensor(s) to illustrate detection proof of principle
* Supporting program for sensor(s), hosted on PC 

Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.) 
* Sensors in situ in EECE corridor
* VR program on portable computer (eg. Palmtop)

Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.

NB. Related work to this has been performed previously, in the context of interactive art/multimedia exhibits using IR.  However, the uniqueness of this particular project relates to its integration with real-time 3D databases, possibly hosted on a portable computer.




