Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:  The coupling capacitance of end-coupled and orthogonal microstrip lines 


Student Name:  Agbamu Evans


Supervisor:  FH




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)

The above coupling capacitances have previously been calculated using quasi-static methods.  They are now to be verified using an electromagnetic simulator.  Although this has also been done in a previous project, more user-friendly software should now enable much further progress to be made.



Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 

1.Design data, mainly coupling capacitances, to be provided for a range of gap sizes, line widths and substrate permittivities, and compared with the results available in the literature.
2. An upper frequency limit for the quasi-static model to be evaluated from the data.
3.  Use of the electromagnetic simulator, and calculations based on the data obtained, to be explained.


Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)

* Items 1 and 3 above.


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)

* A high-frequency model based on several lumped elements is to be created.
* The size of the region of interaction between the two microstrips (assuming a given accuracy) is to be determined.

Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.

Other than learning standard theory and software, there is enough unique material provided the expected outcomes are met.


