Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:   Empirical equation for the resonant frequency and coupling coefficient of  microstrip single-spiral resonators

Student Name:  Sumaira Khan


Supervisor:  FH




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)

Microstrip spiral resonators in filters are currently designed by computer simulation, which is a lengthy process.  It would be helpful to have empirical design equations, similar to those for straight microstrip,  at least to provide an initial design or a feasibility study.  This can be done by fitting a curves to simulated results, probably using the SONNET electromagnetic simulator.  To be useful, the equations must be valid for a wide range of permittivity, number of turns, substrate thickness, etc.


Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 

1. Provide empirical design equations, together with simulation data to demonstrate validity.
2. Use Physical arguments to show proportionality (or other simple relationship) between some of the parameters and resonant frequency, thereby simplifying the equations.
3. Review the theory of resonant transmission lines, and use it for (2).
4. Demonstrate a knowledge of SONNET (or other) electromagnetic simulator.


Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* Provide design data in the form of graphs

* Review the theory of resonant transmission lines.

* Demonstrate a knowledge of SONNET (or other) electromagnetic simulator.


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)

As with "expected outcomes", but extend the work to coupling coefficients between spirals.



Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.

Other than learning standard theory and software, there is enough unique material provided the expected outcomes are met.


 
