Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title: Simulation of Controlled Three Phase Rectifiers for Aircraft Applications


Student Name: E W F Lau


Supervisor: Dr A J Forsyth




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
As mechanical and hydraulic actuation devices in aircraft are replaced by "more electric" systems, an increasing amount of non-linear (rectifier) load is being placed on the power distribution system. It is therefore important to devise and develop high performance controlled rectifiers and to understand their characteristics


Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
This project will use the Saber simulation system to evaluate and compare a number of phase controlled rectifier configurations. This will start with the basic six-pulse circuit then progress to examine twelve pulse systems, regenerative operation and distribution system interaction.

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* Six-pulse rectifier with phase control implemented in Saber
* Full evaluation of simulation performance and comparison with theoretical expectations.
* Literature review of high pulse number controlled rectifiers


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* Extension to consider 12-pulse, 18-pulse and 24-pulse systems. Full evaluation of performance and comparison.
* Operation of system in the regenerative mode.


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.


 ü

