Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title: High Permittivity Patch Antennas 


Student Name: Mr J Leong


Supervisor: Dr P A Smith




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project – targeted at the non-specialist)
High permittivity patch antennas are attractive at lower frequencies as they provide the ability to 
substantially reduce the size of the antenna. This is because the dimensions of the antenna are 
reduced by a factor of 1/??r. However if the ?r is too large then the efficiency and the effective 
bandwidth of the antenna can become too small. There is therefore a need to effectively model 
and design such antennas. If separate antennas are used for TX and RX then narrow bandwidths 
of perhaps 3% are quite viable. 



Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken 
by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ….') 
The aim of this project is to study and model the performance of a high permittivity patch 
antenna. This will probably be done using the cavity model and the software package Matlab. If 
the project goes well then the outcomes are accurate predictions of: 
?	resonant frequency;
?	input impedance 
?	radiation patterns. 


Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   
Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
?	Predict the resonant frequency of the antenna 

?	Predict the resonant frequency with greater accuracy by taking into account the fringing fields 
at the end of the patch

?	


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   
Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
?	Model a GPS receive antenna and compare predictions with real antennas

?	Design a GPS transmit antenna
?	

Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of 
the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing 
material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick 
in the adjacent box.

?

