Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:    Wavelength Division Multiplexing Architecture


Student Name: Liew Hai Ling


Supervisor: Dr. H. Ghafouri-Shiraz




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)


In general single-hop photonic networks suffer from the speed mismatch between the optical and electronic components. This is because, the optical fiber bandwidth is close to 75 Tb/s, while current electronics processing is limited to a few Gb/s. The basic concept of Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) technology is the ability to transmit data simultaneously on multiple wavelengths using a single fiber. WDM networks provide a practical solution to the op-electronic speed mismatch problem.



Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 

In this project, design a WDM network architecture is required with several control channels to overcome the electronic processing bottleneck.




Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)

* Describes the network architecture model 

* Numerical and graphs results


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)

*  Design a WDM network architecture is required with several control channels to overcome the electronic processing bottleneck.

* Presents the performance measures under receiver collision analysis



Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.



