Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:  Wireless Communications based on Bluetooth Technology


Student Name:
Chris Morgan 

Supervisor:
Dr H. Ghafouri-Shiraz



Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)

In recent years, the advancement in Bluetooth communication has totally revolutionized the wireless technology. Bluetooth is a standard technology which uses short-range radio links, operating at 2.4GHz to 2.48GHz band and intended to replace the cables connecting portable and/or fixed electronic devices. Its key features are robustness, low complexity, low power, low cost and wide applications in handheld devices.

Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 

The main objective of this project is a deep understanding and overview of this new technology. In particular the following aspects of Bluetooth must be fully addressed: Aims, security, management, applications, profiles  and protocols.  As for protocols emphasis should be given to the followings: Antennas, Radio interface, Based-band. Link controller and manager, host controller interface, wireless access protocol, service discovery protocol Telephony control protocol, low power operation, quality of service, related standards and technology, market and future development.

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* Complete overview of Bluetooth technology in details
* Blue tooth protocols in details in particular all parts listed in the above expected outcomes

Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated ab

* Develop a theoretical wireless access protocol or software to allow communication over a distance of 1 km and/or increase the data rate.



Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.



