Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:   Basic voice scrambler for privacy


Student Name: The Aik  NG


Supervisor:  FH




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)

	A voice scrambler, which divides the speech spectrum into frequency bands and shifts their positions, can be implemented using time-domain operations alone,  resulting in a very efficient algorithm which uses only about eight multiplications per sample.  Processing has to be carried out digitally but the transmission, over a phone line, can be analog.

	This scrambler is to be implemented using a processor such as the Mitsubishi 16C/62.  It repeats a project by Paul Neumann about 12 years ago, but new hardware available will change the character of the job completely.  A more recent attempt (C.P. Johnson) has left much undone, so there is still a lot of new material to be covered. 

Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 

A demonstration circuit, suitable for lectures and open days, is to be built. Experiments are to be carried out to find the best combination of parameters for optimum performance.  A further study is to find the effective number of distinct keys.

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)

* Demonstrate proficiency with the microprocessor in inputting and outputting data, and doing some simple operations such as frequency shifting.
* 

Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)

* Produce a hard wired, stand-alone circuit.

Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.

Other than learning standard theory and software, there is enough unique material provided the expected outcomes are met.


