Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title: Lip Localization for Audio-Visual Speech Recognition


Student Name: Ng Wen Chun 


Supervisor: Peter Jancovic




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
Lip movement can provide information, which can be used to improve the performance of a speech recognition system. In order to use the lip information in an audio-visual speech recognition system - first, the lip region needs to be localized. This project will involve localization of lips using the audio-visual speech recognition database (CUAVE). There have been several methods for lip-localization proposed by researchers; here, we will base on the colour distribution of skin and lips.

Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 
The aim of this project is to develop a program for the localization of lip-region in static colour images. An approach based on using the colour-distribution of lips can be employed.
The program should take a colour image file as an input, localize the lips, and extract the lip-region as an output image file. The program should be tested on colour images of talking persons from the CUAVE database with clean (green) and noisy background.
The program should be developed in C (C++) (preferably) or in Matlab environment.

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* Develop the program in Matlab environment.
* Tests performed on images with clean background only.
* 


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* Development of an additional method for localizing the lips.
* The results produced by the developed program should be evaluated by comparing them with those localized manually.
* 


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.



