Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:  High Frequency Narrow Band-pass Filter


Student Name:  Chiew Vun Amelia Pang (0324597)


Supervisor:  Dr. Hooshang Ghafouri 
                      Shiraz



Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)

   The evolution in telecommunication systems, especially in the mobile, terrestrial and 
   satellite communication domains have led to hardened constraints in terms of selectivity,
   electrical performances and bulk reduction of planar filters. Therefore, the development of 
   highly selective filters with low insertion losses is a rapidly expanding area of activity.
   



Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 

   The aim of this project is to design a narrow band-pass filter centred at either 1 or 2GHz with
   less than 5dB insertion loss. 



Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* To become familiar with the functions and applications  of the Microwave Design Software (MDS) or  the Advanced Design Software (ADS), or Microwave Software
* Do literature survey on microwave topics related to band pass filters design  
* Design and analysis of characteristics of a high frequency band-pass filter.


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
    
* Carry out the appropriate simulations on the designed prototype and if possible 
* To build the designed high frequency band-pass filter. 


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.



