Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title: A speaker independent, speech recognition system of single and isolated word


Student Name: K Papadopoulos


Supervisor: Prof. M. Russell




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)

The goal of this project is to develop a speech processing system which could be used as an "emergency shut-off" system in an industrial environment involving hazardous equipment.  Thus the system must be able to detect and recognize stressed speech in a noisy industrial environment.  The project is in two parts.  In the first part the goal is to design and build a system which is able to distinguish between 'normal' and 'stressed' speech in a noisy enviromnet.  The second task is to design and build a speaker recognition system, designed to recognize a single and isolated word. It will be "speaker - independent", thus able to compensate for the variation occur in individuals' utterances, and "stress tolerant".


Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 

The outcomes of the project should be as follows:
1. Understand necessary background in speech processing
2. Implement and test a system to distinguish between 'normal' and 'stressed' speech in quiet
3. Analyse the 'acoustic correlates' of stress
4. Implement and test a system to distinguish between 'normal' and 'stressed' speech in noise
5. The aim of this project is to design and simulate a speaker independent, isolated word, speech recognition system using any programming language or toolkit.

Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)

1. Mathematical and speech processing background developed and explained accordingly
2. Sequence of targets corresponds to items 2 to 3 above


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* Item 4 above
* Item 5 above


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.



