Third Year BEng Final Year Design Project - 2003/2004

Project Title:Graphics-based distance measurement in maps


Student Name:Peter Samuel


Supervisor:MS




Project Specification:
Background. (Please include a general scene-setting overview of the project - targeted at the non-specialist)
With the increasing use of hand-held computing systems, a user-friendly walk planning system is now a possibility with capabilities such as route planning, distance measurement and so on. This system should be capable of using down-loadable maps of any scale and route distances easily determined by a simple graphics pen-based scanning system and displayed clearly.





Expected Outcomes. (Please include a specification for the expected outcomes of this project when undertaken by an average student.   e.g. 'The aim of this project is to design and ....') 

The project will involve developing a system which is able to use a scanning device such as a graphics light pen to measure the distance along a road on an OS map. The system must take into account the map scale, which must be adjustable, probably in software. It is envisaged that the system will run on a palm top device and able to use down loaded maps from the internet - http://www.multimap.com/. A full front end interface should be provided enabling a the map scale to be input, a length of road scanned and the distance displayed in different units (miles, kilometres). 





Fallback and Rebuild Position. (Students sometimes have difficulty in delivering the stated outcomes.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of minimal target objectives.)
* A simple distance route distance measuring system using a graphics pen and a PDA  
* The use of downloaded maps
* If this is not possible because of hardware limitations, development of a PIC-based system and a simple distance measuring device using real OS maps


Enhancement Position. (It is anticipated that many students will achieve the expected outcomes stated above.   Using bullet points, please list a suitable set of achievable enhancement objectives.)
* A full route planning system involving check points and associated GUI
* Communicating with other walkers the current position and time


Project Uniqueness:   It is expected that all projects should be essentially unique (at least 80% of the project content).   Thus a student should not be able to meet the project outcomes by reproducing material from previous project reports.   Please confirm the uniqueness of this project by placing a tick in the adjacent box.

x


